---
layout: post
title:  "2020 self-love lessons"
author: Ravreet Kaur
categories: [Self-Love ] [2020] [2021]
featured: true
image: "/assets/images/High_west3.jpg"
---

2020 has been a crazy year! I know it has been extremely difficult year for all of us in a lot of different ways financially, physically, socially, and most importantly psychologically. I had my fair share of struggles and lessons I have taken away from this momentous year which I will share in this blog. This blog takes you on a journey purely based on my personal experiences, my values and growth. I hope you guys take away something, enjoy, learn, and feel inspired after reading this.  

I have loved, hated, cried, enjoyed, the past year and I know I am not the only one. It’s been a rollercoaster and we made it to 2021. My 2020 journey started when I fell in love with someone and it didn’t end well. Without going into further details, it was the most significant turning point of my adult life. The reason being I could have lost my family, and the life I had been working so hard to build for myself in the name of “love”. 

Being a hopeless romantic and following the cultural narrative (social media, movies, books, people around), “love” had been the centre of my universe. 2020, thankfully has altered my perspective on it. Let me explain it to you in this way, if you grab a magnifying glass and just focus on looking for one thing, you ignore everything else. This is essentially what I did. I magnified my efforts if finding romantic love. Yes, it’s nice to have someone to love you romantically. Yes, being in a relationship is great because you never really feel lonely. Yes, it looks great on paper to have a stable partner no matter how old you are in the society we live. 

Being in a relationship has its own perks but it comes with a lot of sacrifices too. Not to mention the time and energy you spend on the other person. If you find someone worth all that, I am here for it! Absolutely happy of you. Particularly for me, I constantly looked down on being single as if being in a relationship was all I needed to be satisfied and happy. In fact, particularly in my case, that was far from it. 

Months after my breakup, I realised singlehood is the best possible thing that could happen to me! I loved with all my heart but instead of focusing on finding someone romantically to love, I loved the people around me abundantly and freely in fact. I learned to love and appreciate my family, my friends and almost everyone I came to know in different but in new ways. I gave myself the chance to pour my efforts of love into the people who were already present and here with me in the moment. 

This is one of the biggest lessons for me in 2020: love is already present in each moment. If you need to look for it, you won’t find it ever. In return, my relationships started to flourish and I’m a lot closer to them than I ever was even if I have known them for years. To this day, I deeply value close relationships.

**rediscovering myself** 

As I noted down my other core values, I valued my health equally. Also, I personally didn’t enjoy drinking alcohol anymore either after my breakup. I regained myself mentally and physically through exercise and fitness.

 This is where my real journey in fitness began. Due to COVID, gyms would open and close with each wave in Hong Kong. Going to the gym was sort of like “self-care” time or my me time. I had a lot more time to focus on myself (even though, I am a full time kindergarten teacher). So, I spent my time at the gym after work. Gyms closing only motivated me to keep going, I was always at the park or at home doing HIIT workouts or going on hikes. It really pushed me to be consistent and disciplined in my fitness journey. Another lesson I learnt: 2020 is the year I started genuinely loving myself!

Thanks for my single-hood, I am finally in a place to be able to really focus on myself. I decided to take some time off dating and solely grow by myself in 2021. 

**transformations that I started to make towards the end of 2020 in my lifestyle** 
•	I journaled my days on and off
•	I took myself out on dates to different restaurants or movies 
•	Fixed my sleeping schedule at 10:30 pm every day 
•	practiced saying “no” a lot more to things, people and plans without guilt
•	Treated myself with respect, forgiveness, and self-compassion whenever I failed and picked myself up
•	Got into a master’s program in positive psychology & education
•	Picked up reading again!!
•	Turned into a pescatarian (6 months ago)  
•	Focused on my career and found joy in every day life
•	Started listening to podcasts regularly
•	Spent a lot of time with my family & grew closer to them
•	Tried my hand on Meditation & yoga (still very new) 
•	Looking for my purpose in serving myself and others
•	Joined courses to learn about nutrition and food 
•	Started my own wellness blog on Instagram 
•	Established boundaries between my space and others 

The best decision I made for myself is to continue growing into a better version of myself every day in 2020. For that, my heart is filled with gratitude! I consider it important to reflect on things and how far I have come and how far I could go. I have become closer to my true self than I have ever been. 

**No matter how big or small the achievements, its worth to take a moment to write them down or even think about them. You deserve to know that you have grown despite the struggles you have been through so take a moment after reading this, write in bullet points what you have accomplished or improved on in 2020.**

Also note how you want to take these practices and values into improving your 2021! 